6/17/2024

I faced sooo many errors and re-doing my project, But now i FINALLY got it hosted and running :).

Heres how to create,build,run then push the Docker file to docker hub, In the next set of notes we will talk 
about how to host the image we pushed from docker hub to Render.


Step 1.Make sure your application is ready, built and runs locally, Then you want to generate your jar file
using mvnw clean package in the cmd line.

Step 2.After generating the jar file you want to create the Dockerfile (⬅just like that) in the root directory
of your project.

Step 3. In the Dockerfile add this same exact thing:

FROM openjdk:17-jdk AS build
COPY . /app
WORKDIR /app
RUN ./mvnw clean package -DskipTests

FROM openjdk:17-jdk-slim
COPY --from=build /app/target/artworkapi-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /app/artworkapi.jar

VOLUME /app/sqlite-data

WORKDIR /app
ENTRYPOINT ["java", "-jar", "artworkapi.jar"]

(Remember to change the name of the artworkapi-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar to what your generated jar file name was
you can check this by going to target.)

Step 4.Save the Dockerfile and restart the application

Step 5.Now in the command line navigate to the main root directory in your application, which is artworkapi (or whatever
name you called your app), And put in the command line docker build -t yourdockerimagename, watch it generate all the lines
you added in the Dockerfile and that should be a success.

Step 6.After building the dockerimage, you should go into Docker desktop and see the generated image.

Step 7.You need to run the docker image, so open a new cmd line and type in --> docker run -p 8080:8080 yourdockerimage
                                                                                  (REMEMBER USE YOUR PORT!)
                                                                                  
heres how the line would look like filled out: docker run -p 8686:8686 artworkdockerimage

Step 8.After running it you should be able to see the spring boot application running in the command line

Step 9.PUSHING!, You want to open a new command line and do --> docker login, Make sure you've logged into your 
docker hub account on the Browser and in the command line.

Step 10.In the same command line you want to tag the docker image first before pushing use this line:

docker tag artworkdockerimage mlallencodes/artworkdockerimage:v1

Step 11.push the docker tag to docker hub using:

docker push mlallencodes/artworkdockerimage:v1

Step 12. Go to the Docker hub on the browser and you should see the docker image like this:

https://hub.docker.com/
